=!YouTube Direct Photo Submissions=

In addition to allowing for video submissions, !YouTube Direct now supports photo uploads from users. This guide explains how photo submissions work, and includes instructions on configuring your YouTube Direct instance to support photo uploads.

==Implementation Details==

Unlike videos, photos are not tied to an existing !YouTube account. The photo upload interface performs an HTTP POST request to your App Engine instance, and the binary photo data is stored in your instance's [http://code.google.com/appengine/docs/java/blobstore/overview.html Blobstore]. Before storing the data, some sanity checks are performed (is the data an actual image? is the data under a certain max size threshold?). Users do not have to log in with a !YouTube account to upload photos, so we require that they provide an email address and solve a [http://recaptcha.net/ reCAPTCHA] to discourage spammy submissions.

While the photos are stored in the Blobstore and could theoretically be served directly from there, developers should be aware that there is a cost involved for both Blobstore storage and for the raw data transferred from your App Engine instance. A best practice is to download a copy of approved photos via the !YouTube Direct Admin interface and to serve the image data from your own web hosting provider. You can optionally delete a photo using the Admin interface to free up storage space in the Blobstore.

Please note that YouTube uploads can't be disabled entirely, so photo submissions are meant to supplement !YouTube submissions. Also note that if a user is logged in to their !YouTube account in the embedded uploader, we assume that means that they want to submit a video, and the option to submit a photo is disabled. Users can use the Logout link to get back to the interface where they can submit photos.

==Setting Up Photo Submissions==
  # Ensure that you're using the latest release of !YouTube Direct. Initial support for photo submissions was added in the `20100421` release (a.k.a. !YouTube Direct "2.0").
  # [http://code.google.com/appengine/docs/billing.html Enable billing] for your App Engine instance. Photo submissions make use of the Blobstore, which is not included in your free quota.
  # Register for a [https://admin.recaptcha.net/recaptcha/sites/ reCAPTCHA account] and generate a new reCAPTCHA API key pair. When generating your reCAPTCHA keys, you should specify `APP_ID`.appspot.com (where `APP_ID` is your App Engine instance) as the target domain.
  # Visit your !YouTube Direct Admin interface at http://APP_ID.appspot.com/admin, and go to the "Configuration" tab.
  # Assuming you're running the latest !YouTube Direct codebase, you should see a "Photo Submissions" checkbox under the "Moderation / Submission Settings" section. Check this box.
  # Specify your preferred maximum photo size and the public and private reCAPTCHA keys that you registered in step 3.
  # Save your configuration changes.

Your users should now see a "Submit Photo(s)" option when they visit a page with an embedded !YouTube Direct uploader. You can access their photo submissions via the new "Photo Submission" tab in the Admin interface.